docs(newsletter): add edition3 (#1761)
spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io: news/editions/edition3.md

---
layout: single
title:  "*Flying*  Edition 3"
sidebar:
  nav: news
redirect_from: /news/latest/
---
## Open Source: #BetterTogether

> > This month's issue focuses Spinnaker's strong open source DNA. The OSS community embraces Spinnaker, as it builds a bridge between the collaboration and interoperability story at the core of Linux culture, and the powerful cloud economy that has leveraged it to transform software delivery. Efforts to build native Kubernetes integration highlight this unique strength.

Reviewer: > The OSS community embraces Spinnaker, as it builds a bridge between the collaboration and interoperability story at the core of Linux culture, and the powerful cloud economy that has leveraged it to transform software delivery.

^ is a pretty long sentence. The longer a sentence gets, the more meaning is lost, especially for people whose second language is English.

Also, the comma between `culture` and `and` isn't needed.

> > This month's issue focuses Spinnaker's strong open source DNA. The OSS community embraces Spinnaker, as it builds a bridge between the collaboration and interoperability story at the core of Linux culture, and the powerful cloud economy that has leveraged it to transform software delivery. Efforts to build native Kubernetes integration highlight this unique strength.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This month's issue focuses on Spinnaker's strong open-source DNA. The OSS community embraces Spinnaker as we build a bridge between the powerful cloud economy and the culture of collaboration and interoperability that it seeks to leverage. Our effort to build a native Kubernetes integration is an example of how we're transforming software delivery in this way.
```

Reviewer 2: @dnilasor here's an attempt to rewrite this first para. But I'm worried I might have broken some of the meaning, so please take what you want from this and change it to suit, or fix what I broke. (Or ignore it completely, but I do thing the 2nd sentence in the original is hard to parse.

## [The New Age of the K8S Operator](https://www.armory.io/blog/introducing-spinnaker-operator-a-kubernetes-native-blueprint-for-success/)

> Spinnaker Operator, a Kubernetes operator for Spinnaker, has reached Beta. With it installed, you can use kubectl commands to install, deploy, and upgrade any version of Spinnaker through its lifecycle. Read the [doc](https://github.com/armory/spinnaker-operator/blob/release-0.3.x/README.md), try it out, and use the #kubernetes-operator channel in Spinnaker Slack to share your feedback.

Reviewer: > through its lifecycle.

This is confusing. Spinnaker's lifecycle? kubectl's? The Operator's?

Reviewer 2: Is "...through its lifecycle" necessary?

> Spinnaker Operator, a Kubernetes operator for Spinnaker, has reached Beta. With it installed, you can use kubectl commands to install, deploy, and upgrade any version of Spinnaker through its lifecycle. Read the [doc](https://github.com/armory/spinnaker-operator/blob/release-0.3.x/README.md), try it out, and use the #kubernetes-operator channel in Spinnaker Slack to share your feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spinnaker Operator, a Kubernetes operator for Spinnaker, has reached Beta. With it installed, you can use `kubectl` commands to install, deploy, and upgrade any version of Spinnaker through its lifecycle. Read the [doc](https://github.com/armory/spinnaker-operator/blob/release-0.3.x/README.md), try it out, and use the #kubernetes-operator channel in Spinnaker Slack to share your feedback.
```

## [Join Spinnaker Gardening Days #CommunityHack Virtually on April 9-10](https://github.com/spinnaker-hackathon/gardening)

> As contributors and project newcomers alike gear up for the first Spinnaker Gardening Days, we're collecting and discussing [project ideas](https://github.com/spinnaker-hackathon/gardening/wiki/Project-Ideas). Socializing your ideas at this stage will help shape them into projects, so please visit the Wiki and join or create #gardening-idea Slack channels, and discuss with your peers. Alternatively, visit your favorite SIG's channel or meeting, and ask where you can jump in. Don't forget to [register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/spinnaker-gardening-days-communityhack-tickets-97845696111) to reserve your ticket!

Reviewer: > to reserve your ticket

Ticket for what? This is a virtual event w/ no max capacity I thought.

Author: This is a CTA to get people to register for the event. There is limited capacity for the training track, and folks will only get the swag/prizes/lunch tickets if they register. So, to answer your question....ticket for the event.

> As contributors and project newcomers alike gear up for the first Spinnaker Gardening Days, we're collecting and discussing [project ideas](https://github.com/spinnaker-hackathon/gardening/wiki/Project-Ideas). Socializing your ideas at this stage will help shape them into projects, so please visit the Wiki and join or create #gardening-idea Slack channels, and discuss with your peers. Alternatively, visit your favorite SIG's channel or meeting, and ask where you can jump in. Don't forget to [register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/spinnaker-gardening-days-communityhack-tickets-97845696111) to reserve your ticket!

Reviewer 2: Hyperlink "visit the wiki"?

## [How to Build a Centos RPM Via a Spinnaker "Bake"](https://blog.opsmx.com/how-to-build-bake-centos-rpm-using-spinnaker/)

> While Spinnaker doesn't offer a CentOS baking option by default, this tech blog demonstrates the use of package management and S3 to bake a build as a CentOS image, and deploying an instance of the baked image on AWS cloud. With the RPM built, configuring and executing the bake in Spinnaker requires just a few steps.

Reviewer: Another really long sentence.

Author: shortened several here, thanks for this prompt

> While Spinnaker doesn't offer a CentOS baking option by default, this tech blog demonstrates the use of package management and S3 to bake a build as a CentOS image, and deploying an instance of the baked image on AWS cloud. With the RPM built, configuring and executing the bake in Spinnaker requires just a few steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While Spinnaker doesn't offer a CentOS baking option by default, this tech blog demonstrates how to use package management and S3 to bake a build as a CentOS image and deploy an instance of the baked image on AWS cloud. With the RPM built, configuring and executing the bake in Spinnaker requires just a few steps.
```

Reviewer 2: And can that last sentence ("With the RPM built..." be deleted without losing much value? It sounds like it's good information to have in the post, but maybe unnecessary here?

## ['Just Me and Opensource' Tutorials Available on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9EUyMjR6jSc&t=2s)

> Fans of the __[Just me and Opensource](https://www.youtube.com/user/wenkatn)__ online tutorials got a nice dose of CD when the popular Youtuber published a new segment of his Kubernetes series focused on deploying Spinnaker to Kubernetes. Brilliant to learn hands-on how these open source software tools and technologies are better together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fans of the __[Just me and Opensource](https://www.youtube.com/user/wenkatn)__ online tutorials got a nice dose of CD when the popular YouTuber published a new segment of his Kubernetes series focused on deploying Spinnaker to Kubernetes. Brilliant to learn hands-on how these open-source software tools and technologies are better together.
```

## [Netflix's Interactive Slack Notifications for ChatOps with Spinnaker](https://blog.spinnaker.io/interacting-with-spinnaker-via-slack-at-netflix-9ab262e8218d)

> 2-way interactive Slack notifications allow Netflix engineers deploying with Spinnaker's new Managed Delivery feature to approve a Spinnaker pipeline manual judgement directly from Slack. Learn how Echo fields communications between notifying services and Slack via interactive notification callbacks.

Reviewer: I'd replace `fields` w/ another verb since `fields` can also be a noun. Someone new to Spinnaker might think Echo has fields to fill in.

Reviewer 2: "manages"?

> 2-way interactive Slack notifications allow Netflix engineers deploying with Spinnaker's new Managed Delivery feature to approve a Spinnaker pipeline manual judgement directly from Slack. Learn how Echo fields communications between notifying services and Slack via interactive notification callbacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two-way interactive Slack notifications allow Netflix engineers deploying with Spinnaker's new Managed Delivery feature to approve a Spinnaker pipeline manual judgement directly from Slack. Learn how Echo fields communications between notifying services and Slack via interactive notification callbacks.
```

Reviewer 2: (only because it's the beginning of the sentence, and it still looks weird to me when  a sentence begins with a numeral.)

## [Operating Spinnaker at Scale & the Ops SIG's Mission](https://www.armory.io/blog/scaling-spinnaker-at-salesforce-the-life-of-a-cloud-ops-architect/)

> Discover the mission of the new Operations SIG in this interview with the co-chair, Edgar Magana of Salesforce. This SIG will address several goals and challenges, including reference architecture. Edgar explains these through the lens of Salesforce's Spinnaker implementation, which targets both Kubernetes and EC2 deployments.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Discover the mission of the new [Operations SIG](https://github.com/spinnaker/governance/tree/master/sig-ops) in this interview with the co-chair, Edgar Magana of Salesforce. 

This SIG will address several goals and challenges, including reference architecture. Edgar explains these through the lens of Salesforce's Spinnaker implementation, which targets both Kubernetes and EC2 deployments.  
```

## [Adopting the V2 K8S Provider As V1 Support Sunsets](https://blog.spinnaker.io/farewell-to-the-kubernetes-v1-provider-79d93861c6e4)

> Spinnaker 1.21, expected near the end of June, will be the final release that includes the Kubernetes V1 provider, as community best practices optimize for V2. Read more about generating V2-compliant, version-controlled Kubernetes manifests, and additional steps to migrate pipelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spinnaker 1.21 will be the final release that includes the Kubernetes V1 provider. Read more about generating V2-compliant, version-controlled Kubernetes manifests, and additional steps to migrate pipelines.
```

Reviewer 2: That 2nd edit there, deleting ", as community best...V2"...
Mainly it's the "best practices optimize for V2" part that doesn't sound right to me. And I figured it's unnecessary. But if you want to keep it that's ok, but maybe instead say "...as best practices increasingly recommend V2" or something like that.

> ## [PaCRD Deep Dive: Try Out Spinnaker Pipelines as CRDs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HZtRCyGA7yM)

Reviewer: This is Armory proprietary I thought. It shouldn't be in the OSS highlights if it is.

Author: My thought on this was, this is an experimental feature that has not been monetized. There are other parallel efforts to experiment w Spinnaker pipelines as CRDs but no content out there around it that I've found other than this. The CDF's perspective seems to be, it's OK to talk about proprietary features built onto OSS tools as it's all part of the ecosystem. Trying to be judicious in my bias towards Armory, but also feel it's important to highlight that Spinnaker does have an evolving story beyond the GUI and that it's in active development (as that is one argument you hear a lot as a count for tekton/jenkins X vs Spinnaker). Happy to hear more thoughts!

Reviewer 2: @plumpy, for a ruling.

@dnilasor if the fact that it hasn't been optimized yet is relevant to the question of appropriateness, consider that it might be monitized later and this content will still be here.

Author: I don't have a problem with that personally (thinking with my OSS user/contrib brain and not my armory brain) but am happy to be overruled. To me, given the competitive narrative, getting visibility into our PaC story is worth it for competitive purposes regardless of whether we're talking COSS or OSS. Any other more neutral PaC materials to suggest?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I appreciate you calling this out, but I'm inclined to say it's fine...

Reviewer 2: 👍

> Armory released a new "PaCRD" experience for experimental use this month. Watch to learn how to add a controller to your Spinnaker installation to manage application and pipeline objects as CRDs within your Kubernetes cluster. Store your pipeline definitions in the same format as other application resources, and provide your feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Armory released a new "PaCRD" experiment this month. Learn how to add a controller to your Spinnaker installation to manage application and pipeline objects as CRDs within your Kubernetes cluster. Store your pipeline definitions in the same format as other application resources, and provide your feedback.
```

## [Spinnaker Summit CFP Now Open](https://linuxfoundation.smapply.io/prog/spinnaker_summit_2020/)

> With Spring upon us, the annual Spinnaker Summit is closer than you think. The CFP recently opened, and the application contains plenty of inspiration. Newly created tracks - Deep Dive, Hands-On, and Solutions & Case Studies - aim to create a high-quality program that will appeal to any CD stakeholder. Visit the #spinnaker-summit-2020 channel for brainstorming support, and count on help with presentation prep as needed. Submit your proposals today!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Spring upon us, the annual Spinnaker Summit is closer than you think. The CFP recently opened, and the application contains plenty of inspiration. Newly created tracks (Deep Dive, Hands-On, and Solutions & Case Studies) aim to create a high-quality program that will appeal to any CD stakeholder. Visit the #spinnaker-summit-2020 channel for brainstorming support, and count on help with presentation prep as needed. Submit your proposals today!
```

> With Spring upon us, the annual Spinnaker Summit is closer than you think. The CFP recently opened, and the application contains plenty of inspiration. Newly created tracks - Deep Dive, Hands-On, and Solutions & Case Studies - aim to create a high-quality program that will appeal to any CD stakeholder. Visit the #spinnaker-summit-2020 channel for brainstorming support, and count on help with presentation prep as needed. Submit your proposals today!

Reviewer 2: "...count on help..."

Where's that help coming from? It'd be good to change this sentence to "...and we'll help you if you need..." or "...[so-and-so} is standing by to help...".

> ## [Fix Applied for Clouddriver SQL Injection Bug Discovered by Autodesk](https://github.com/spinnaker/clouddriver/pull/4435)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## [Clouddriver SQL Injection Bug Fixed](https://github.com/spinnaker/clouddriver/pull/4435)
```

Author: I don't want to nit-pick and don't really mind changing this, but I do want to understand why. I think my goal here was to start doing more horn-tooting about orgs contributing their operational learnings (and of course tooling) back to OSS Spinnaker. I know the content is still in the paragraph but, folks skim. @Dorbin is the concern here that calling out specific contributing companies will be uneven and thus unfair? Or it just doesn't sound good?

Reviewer: From my POV, what Dave wrote is closer to how fixes in release notes are typically written. I'll update it to be something like

> Clouddriver SQL Injection Bug Fixed. Shoutout to Autodesk for finding and reporting the issue. 

Edit: Oh the description already has Autodesk in it. I reordered the description so that Autodesk gets mentioned first.

> Engineers from Netflix and Armory acted quickly to include an important Clouddriver fix in the 1.17 release. The PEN testing team at longtime Spinnaker user company Autodesk discovered the SQL injection vulnerability and facilitated the quick fix. Community teamwork win!

Reviewer: > Spinnaker user company

That sounds odd

## User Stories
## [Kubernetes-Native Spinnaker Pipelines with Istio at Descartes Labs](https://cd.foundation/blog/2020/02/24/descartes-labs-implementation-of-spinnaker-pipelines-the-end-of-waterfall/)

> Watch Louis Vernon's story of how Descartes Labs, an uber-cool geospatial analysis platform, evolved its waterfall deployments into modern Kubernetes pipelines, using GKE with Spinnaker, Istio and StackDriver.  Today, Istio routes updates between environments all running in the same cluster to deliver a stable SDLC.

Reviewer: > uber

Avoid non-English words.

Reviewer 2: I added a suggested edit for this, not so much becauser uber is not a standard English word but because I think people think of Uber when they read "uber".

> Watch Louis Vernon's story of how Descartes Labs, an uber-cool geospatial analysis platform, evolved its waterfall deployments into modern Kubernetes pipelines, using GKE with Spinnaker, Istio and StackDriver.  Today, Istio routes updates between environments all running in the same cluster to deliver a stable SDLC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Watch Louis Vernon's story of how Descartes Labs, an ultra-cool geospatial analysis platform, evolved its waterfall deployments into modern Kubernetes pipelines using GKE with Spinnaker, Istio and StackDriver.  Today, Istio routes updates among environments all running in the same cluster to deliver a stable SDLC.
```

## [Multi-environment Microservice Delivery With Spinnaker at JPMC](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/spinnaker-jpmorgan-chase/)

> Hear Richard Francois, a VP at JP Morgan Chase, and Olga Kundzich explain how Spinnaker has helped the bank deploy software experiences to both public clouds and on-prem private clouds from one central locus of control and visibility. Monitoring system integration and no-code, zero-downtime deployments to Kubernetes, AWS, and the private cloud code-named "Gaia" have set this financial giant apart.

Reviewer 2: For parallelism, it might be good to have a qualifier after Olga's name too.

Author: Yeah, I agree but didn't want to make it too long. Will add

> Hear Richard Francois, a VP at JP Morgan Chase, and Olga Kundzich explain how Spinnaker has helped the bank deploy software experiences to both public clouds and on-prem private clouds from one central locus of control and visibility. Monitoring system integration and no-code, zero-downtime deployments to Kubernetes, AWS, and the private cloud code-named "Gaia" have set this financial giant apart.

Reviewer 2: In that last sentence, there's a big chasm between the subject and the verb. See what you can do with it, @dnilasor :)

Reviewer 2: Actually, a better way for me to say this is that the subject phrase is all of this: "Monitoring...code-named 'Gaia'". Would it be possible to make the subject a little clearer and bring it closer to the verb?

Author: I split it up instead. Sound better?

## [Adobe Experience Platform Leverages Spinnaker](https://www.facebook.com/costi.muraru/posts/3088480564511758)

> Adobe SREs Constantin Muraru and Dan Popescu presented the aptly named "Deploying your real-time apps on thousands of servers and still being able to breathe" at StrataData in London. They sought an open source platform to pick up where Jenkins leaves off for more automated and reliable delivery. They chose Spinnaker based on its rich out-of-the-box integrations and deployment strategies. [Read more](https://medium.com/adobetech/experiences-with-spinnaker-on-adobe-experience-platform-bae6cf351f34).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adobe SREs Constantin Muraru and Dan Popescu presented the aptly named "Deploying your real-time apps on thousands of servers and still being able to breathe" at StrataData in London. They sought an open-source platform to pick up where Jenkins leaves off for more automated and reliable delivery. They chose Spinnaker because of its rich out-of-the-box integrations and deployment strategies. [Read more](https://medium.com/adobetech/experiences-with-spinnaker-on-adobe-experience-platform-bae6cf351f34).
```

## Tweet Street

> Noteworthy tweets this month

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Noteworthy tweets this month:
```
